README.md, before:

# Shipsim

ShipSim takes a JSON file containing ship's positions and simulates the ships moving through the water, reporting crossing vectors and potential collisions.

## Installation

Install [elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/install.html)

## Build

>
> `mix deps.get`
>
> `mix`
>

## Test

>
> `mix test`
>

## Run

The application is currently run using the mix build tool, as the standalone
CLI executable depends upon escript, and this has incompatibilities with the
Timex module (see "Escript Standalone Exes" section below).

By default, mix will run against the provided test data. Output can be
redirected to an output file in markdown format.

>
> `mix > final_output.md`
>

If different data should be passed to the application, use the command line
interface to pass in the new file name. This is a workaround due to mix run
attempting to process everything as script files unless code is evaled using
the -e option.

>
> `mix run -e "ShipSim.CLI.main System.argv" -- test/TestData.json`
>
> `mix run -e "ShipSim.CLI.main System.argv" -- --help`
>

## Debug

>
> `iex -S mix`
>
> `ShipSim.run_sim()`
>

* [Debugging Elixir Docs](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/debugging.html)
* [Debugging Plataformatec](http://blog.plataformatec.com.br/2016/04/debugging-techniques-in-elixir-lang/)
* [Debugger Erlang](http://erlang.org/doc/apps/debugger/debugger_chapter.html)

## Escript Standalone Exes

Unfortunately, this code uses Timex, which depends upon Tzdata, and there is
currently an incompatibility between Tzdata and escript that has yet to be resolved.

[Timex with escript](https://libraries.io/hex/timex/3.1.0#timex-with-escript)

What this means is that although we have escript enabled in the mix config,
it throws an error when we run it.

For now I have left the escript configuration in place in hopes that Tzdata will
be fixed to work with escript and the following commands can be used to test it.

The workaround for now is to run mix itself to run the code.

### escript Build

>
> `mix escript.build`
>

### escript Run

>
> `escript shipsim --help`
>
> `escript shipsim test/TestData.json`
>
> `escript shipsim --file test/TestData.json`
>

## escript References

[Elixir Console Application](https://hackernoon.com/elixir-console-application-with-json-parsing-lets-print-to-console-b701abf1cb14)

## License and Copyright

This work is licenced under the MIT license. See LICENSE.

Some of the code in geometry.exs (Rectangle and Square) was excerpted from
"Seven More Languages in Seven Weeks", published by The Pragmatic Bookshelf.
Copyrights apply to this code. It may not be used to create training material, courses, books, articles, and the like.  Visit http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/7lang for more book information.

Commit message:

mention newer version of elixir 1.8+

README.md, after:

# Shipsim

ShipSim takes a JSON file containing ship's positions and simulates the ships moving through the water, reporting crossing vectors and potential collisions.

## Installation

Install [elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/install.html).

Requires v1.8+ of elixir due to DateTime.add/4. This can and will probably be rewritten to use other parts of DateTime instead of add to make this more backwardly compatible. Meanwhile, the fast way to get up and running is to use [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com) and install a newer version of elixir like so: `asdf install elixir 1.8.2`.

## Build

>
> `mix deps.get`
>
> `mix`
>

## Test

>
> `mix test`
>

## Run

The application is currently run using the mix build tool, as the standalone
CLI executable depends upon escript, and this has incompatibilities with the
Timex module (see "Escript Standalone Exes" section below).

By default, mix will run against the provided test data. Output can be
redirected to an output file in markdown format.

>
> `mix > final_output.md`
>

If different data should be passed to the application, use the command line
interface to pass in the new file name. This is a workaround due to mix run
attempting to process everything as script files unless code is evaled using
the -e option.

>
> `mix run -e "ShipSim.CLI.main System.argv" -- test/TestData.json`
>
> `mix run -e "ShipSim.CLI.main System.argv" -- --help`
>

## Debug

>
> `iex -S mix`
>
> `ShipSim.run_sim()`
>

* [Debugging Elixir Docs](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/debugging.html)
* [Debugging Plataformatec](http://blog.plataformatec.com.br/2016/04/debugging-techniques-in-elixir-lang/)
* [Debugger Erlang](http://erlang.org/doc/apps/debugger/debugger_chapter.html)

## Escript Standalone Exes

Unfortunately, this code uses Timex, which depends upon Tzdata, and there is
currently an incompatibility between Tzdata and escript that has yet to be resolved.

[Timex with escript](https://libraries.io/hex/timex/3.1.0#timex-with-escript)

What this means is that although we have escript enabled in the mix config,
it throws an error when we run it.

For now I have left the escript configuration in place in hopes that Tzdata will
be fixed to work with escript and the following commands can be used to test it.

The workaround for now is to run mix itself to run the code.

### escript Build

>
> `mix escript.build`
>

### escript Run

>
> `escript shipsim --help`
>
> `escript shipsim test/TestData.json`
>
> `escript shipsim --file test/TestData.json`
>

## escript References

[Elixir Console Application](https://hackernoon.com/elixir-console-application-with-json-parsing-lets-print-to-console-b701abf1cb14)

## License and Copyright

This work is licenced under the MIT license. See LICENSE.

Some of the code in geometry.exs (Rectangle and Square) was excerpted from
"Seven More Languages in Seven Weeks", published by The Pragmatic Bookshelf.
Copyrights apply to this code. It may not be used to create training material, courses, books, articles, and the like.  Visit http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/7lang for more book information.
